# ASW
The key to that change, Oculus CEO Brendan Iribe says, is a new "asychronous spacewarp" technology built into the Oculus API. Much like the Oculus' existing "asyncrhonous timewarp" technology (**which Iribe says eliminates almost all of the 11 percent of frames that would otherwise be dropped in VR**), Iribe says "spacewarp" allows games to run at an internal 45 frames per second while still providing a smooth 90 frames per second to the headset.

The spacewarp system (which is built into the Oculus runtime) takes the two previous frames generated by software, analyzes the difference, and calculates a spatial transformation that can generate a "synthetic frame" based on the current head translation and movement. While Iribe was clear that this synthetic frame system is still "no replacement for native 90 hz rendering," it does fill in the frame rate gaps on systems that are not able to hit that framerate natively.

# AMD support
Asynchronous Spacewarp (ASW), which was designed by Oculus to complement ATW and enhance its effectiveness. It works by comparing previously rendered frames to detect motion between them, and using that information to extrapolate the position of scene components in the next frame. This allows re-projected frames to more accurately approximate how they would look if they had been fully rendered.

The motion detection calculations required for ASW need a considerable amount of computational power, and they must be completed within a few milliseconds just before each frame is ready to display. The latest iteration of LiquidVR provides access to powerful image processing hardware in VR-capable AMD Radeon GPUs that can generate the necessary motion vectors without burdening the main graphics engine.

Combined with the existing ATW and QRQ features, ASW can enable incredibly smooth and comfortable VR experience on AMD CPUs and Polaris GPUs available at an attractive price point, making VR accessible to virtually everyone. This is the latest example of how AMD and our technology partners are developing technology that helps bring premium VR to the widest possible audience.
[ref](http://radeon.com/en-us/asynchronous-space-warp/)